Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the workbook before print event and the workbook before print event
.
As the name suggests,
it runs any code written in that event before printing happens.
So to get to that event,
you need to open your VB editor and then you're gonna double click on this workbook here,
and then you're gonna click on workbook from this menu.
Andi,
you're gonna select before print here from this menu,
just going to lead the workbook open event because we don't need it.
So it actually works similarly to the workbook before close event and you can see her.
There is a parameter called cancel,
and the this cancel parameter is bullion,
so it takes values of true or false is by default falls.
However,
if you put it equal to true than printing will not be allowed.
If someone tries to print your ah,
Excel workbook,
they're not going to be allowed to print it.
So I'm gonna put council equals true.
Then maybe a message box printing is not allowed.
So now I'm going to try to print.
So I'm gonna go to file and then print on them going to click here on the print but in here
and says printing is not allowed and it's not allowed me to print.
You can also do something cool with that,
which is that you can be selective of who can print your workbook.
So there is actually a function in Excel,
Vehbi,
eh?
That's called Environment that can determine what the user name off the person who's using
the computer is.
And you can know what the user name of yourself is.
If you're logged on windows with your user taken right here in the immediate window,
for example,
environ after the question mark.
Okay,
sir.
Asking for a certain value.
And then inside that inside environment you're going to write user name?
Sure.
Now asking about the current user name that is using the computer.
Okay,
so I got the user name,
which is myself to get actually right here.
If environment user name is not equal to yours,
then cancel equals true else.
Cancel equals false.
Okay,
and if so,
now is somebody else other than myself tries to print the workbook,
it's not gonna enable him or her to print,
but if it is myself than I'm going to be able to print the workbook.
So that's a bit of ah,
Security if you 12 Okay,
so let's say for the workbook before print event.
Thank you very much,
guys,
for watching this video and I'll see you on the next one.